---
title: 58 bytes of css to look great nearly everywhere
---

When making this `website`, I wanted a simple, reasonable way to make it look good on most displays.
Not counting any minimization techniques, the following 58 bytes worked well for me:

    main {
      max-width: 38rem;
      padding: 2rem;
      margin: auto;
    }

Let's break this down.

## `max-width: 38rem`

It appears that the default font size for most browsers is `16px`, so `38rem` is `608px`. Supporting
`600px` displays at a minimum seems reasonable.

## `padding: 2rem`

If the display's width goes under `38rem`, then this padding keeps things looking pretty good until
around `256px`. While this may seem optional, it actually hits two birds with one stone - the
padding also provides sorely-needed top and bottom whitespace.

## `margin: auto`

This is really all that is needed to center the page, because main is a block element under semantic
html5.

---

A key insight: it took me a surprising number of iterations to arrive at this point. Perhaps that
speaks to the fact that i know nothing about "modern" web development, or, as i'm more inclined to
believe, just how hard it is to keep it simple in a world of complication.

**Update**: following some discussion (see footer), i've since changed the padding to `1.5rem` for a
happier compromise between mobile and desktop displays.

**Update 2**: the ch unit was brought to my attention [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/css/comments/bb73cw/58_bytes_of_css_to_look_great_nearly_everywhere/ekj8yhm/),
and i quite like it! i've since changed to `70ch`/`2ch`, which looks nearly the same with 2 less
bytes, except that the padding is a little bit smaller (a good thing for mobile).

Discuss on [hacker news](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19607169)
